Tutorial on measuring retrieval quality (#514)
qdrant/landing_page: qdrant-landing/content/documentation/tutorials/retrieval-quality.md

mode, as we are only going to use part of it.

```python
from datasets import load_dataset

dataset = load_dataset(
    "Qdrant/arxiv-titles-instructorxl-embeddings", split="train", streaming=True
)
```

We need some data to be indexed and another set for the testing purposes. Let's get the first 50000 items for the training and the next 1000
for the testing.

```python
dataset_iterator = iter(dataset)
train_dataset = [next(dataset_iterator) for _ in range(60000)]
test_dataset = [next(dataset_iterator) for _ in range(1000)]
```

Now, let's create a collection and index the training data. This collection will be created with the default configuration. Please be aware that
it might be different from your collection settings, and it's always important to test exactly the same configuration you are going to use later
in production.

```python
from qdrant_client import QdrantClient, models

client = QdrantClient("http://localhost:6333")
client.create_collection(
    collection_name="arxiv-titles-instructorxl-embeddings",
    vectors_config=models.VectorParams(
        size=768,  # Size of the embeddings generated by InstructorXL model

>         distance=models.Distance.COSINE,

Reviewer: It would be nice for someone to understand how different distance algorithms affect search results, I am sure, that falls under the measure of retrieval quality too.

Author: Good idea, thanks! How about making a note about this?

![](https://github.com/qdrant/landing_page/assets/2649301/b35c6829-5398-4f46-b866-8ddfcfe52122)

Reviewer: Looks good ! Thanks !

The default values of these parameters are `m=16` and `ef_construct=100`. Let's try to increase them to `m=32` and `ef_construct=200` and
see how it affects the precision. Of course, we need to wait until the indexing is finished before we can perform the search.

```python
client.update_collection(
    collection_name="arxiv-titles-instructorxl-embeddings",
    hnsw_config=models.HnswConfigDiff(
        m=32,  # Increase the number of edges per node from the default 16 to 32
        ef_construct=200,  # Increase the number of neighbours from the default 100 to 200
    )
)

while True:
    collection_info = client.get_collection(collection_name="arxiv-titles-instructorxl-embeddings")
    if collection_info.status == models.CollectionStatus.GREEN:
        # Collection status is green, which means the indexing is finished
        break
```

The same function can be used to calculate the average `precision@5`:

```python
print(f"avg(precision@5) = {avg_precision_at_k(k=5)}")
```

Response:

```text
avg(precision@5) = 0.9969999999999998
```

The precision has obviously increased, and we know how to control it. However, there is a trade-off between the precision and the search

> latency and memory requirements. In some specific cases, we might want to increase the precision as much as possible, so now we know how

Reviewer: ```suggestion
latency and memory requirements. In some specific cases, we may want to increase the precision as much as possible, so now we know how
```

to do it. 

## Wrapping up

> Retrieval quality is an important factor of the semantic search quality. It might and should be measured if you care about the quality of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assessing the quality of retrieval is a critical aspect of evaluating semantic search performance. It is imperative to measure retrieval quality when aiming for optimal quality of.
```

your search results. Qdrant provides a built-in exact search mode, which can be used to measure the quality of the ANN algorithm itself, 
even in an automated way, as part of your CI/CD pipeline.

> Again, **the quality of the embeddings is the most important factor**. HNSW does a pretty good job in terms of precision, but it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Again, **the quality of the embeddings is the most important factor**. HNSW does a pretty good job in terms of precision, and it is
```

> parameterizable and tunable, when required. There are some other ANN algorithms available out there, such as IVF, but they usually [perform 

Reviewer: Can you add link for IVF , its bit of polysemous! Thanks

in terms of precision.

Before we start, let's create a collection, fill it with some data and then start our evaluation. We will use the same dataset as in the
[Loading a dataset from Hugging Face hub](/documentation/tutorials/huggingface-datasets/) tutorial, `Qdrant/arxiv-titles-instructorxl-embeddings`
from the [Hugging Face hub](https://huggingface.co/datasets/Qdrant/arxiv-titles-instructorxl-embeddings). Let's download it in a streaming
mode, as we are only going to use part of it.

```python
from datasets import load_dataset

dataset = load_dataset(
    "Qdrant/arxiv-titles-instructorxl-embeddings", split="train", streaming=True
)
```

We need some data to be indexed and another set for the testing purposes. Let's get the first 10000 items for the training and the next 1000
for the testing.

```python
dataset_iterator = iter(dataset)
train_dataset = [next(dataset_iterator) for _ in range(10000)]
test_dataset = [next(dataset_iterator) for _ in range(1000)]
```

Now, let's create a collection and index the training data. This collection won't be created with the default configuration, as we want to

> ensure the approximate search is performed. Therefore, we will set the `indexing_threshold` to `1`, which means that the indexing will be

Reviewer: 'indexing threshold' isn't too clear for a concept plus no references are found on the indexing page (which is provided as the reference) .

Reviewer 2: I would agree, that setting `indexing_threshold: 1` is usually not the best practice. Optimizer will be triggered on each insertion.

I would propose to just use default value

> performed immediately after the first 1kB of vectors is added to the collection. The indexing process will build the HNSW graph required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
performed immediately after the first vector is added to the collection. The indexing process will build the HNSW graph required
```

Reviewer 2: Technically it is 1kB of vectors, but I would suggest to drop the mentions of that, as it looks like the tutorial should work just fine without the explicit configuration.

Reviewer 2: And if it is not indexing, you can try to use more data

Author: Okay, the updated version uses the defaults.

> for approximate search (Qdrant performs the exact search if there is no HNSW graph for that segment). We will also set the `default_segment_number` 

Reviewer 2: same for `default_segment_number`. It doesn't look to relevant for this tutorial.

Author: Okay, the updated version uses the defaults.
